Can you imagine a world where we're all represented by a font?
Huh. I wonder which one I would be.
Too straight.
No! Not in that way!
Just straight... as in unexciting.
Too... Uh...
Deadpool.
[Piano riffs]
Broadway!
[Singing] Now that's the one! Now that's the one!~
[Intro]
Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory!
Where instead of putting a joke here, I wanna ask you a question.
If your personality were represented by a font, what font would you be?
Take a moment and put your font in the comments.
I'm really curious to see what everyone has to say.
Maybe find a couple new cool fonts to use.
Getting bored with old Calibri 11.
And with that out of the way, it's time to talk Undertale.
Now I don't think I've ever gotten this many requests to cover a game.
Well... Except for FNAF...
And I suppose FNAF 2
Oh! And then there was FNAF 3
Wait a minute. Should I-should I be worried about something here?
Anyway, across the board on YouTube, Reddit, and Twitter, you all have wanted Undertale.
And honestly, I'm glad you brought it to my attention.
True loyal Theorists will know that EarthBound is my favorite game of all time.
So a self-aware RPG in a similar style...
Oh-hoh man! It's like a gift from the indie-gaming heavens!
Undertale is a game where every character
from Goat Mom to grind fodder
has a sympathetic design and unique personality.
Motivations, goals, fears.
Whether you're saving or slaughtering them, the game makes you feel something
every time you enter an encounter.
But to me, one character stood out amongst all the rest.
Sans. A skeleton names after the font "Comic Sans"
Hence all the font references at the beginning of the episode.
If you haven't played Undertale, I'm sure that was a really weird opening.
Anyways, Sans is... well... there's a lot of mystery around this guy.
And before we get into it, let me put up a very special SPOILER WARNING.
Undertale is a game best experienced blind.
So if you haven't played it, pause the video and come back after you finished.
I promise you. I PROMISE you won't regret it.
Alright, so everyone out of the pool and ready for the adult swim?
Good. Because I'm feeling pretty determined to get to the bottom of Sans' mystery.
So just a recap for those of you who haven't played the game
and ignored the SPOILER WARNING
or just need a refresher,
Sans is one of the two skeletal brothers who appear in the game.
His partner is Papyrus. A loud, goofy, trap lover also named after a font.
But in the world of Undertale, their origins are a big question mark.
All that we really know is what's given to us by a shopkeeper in Snowdin.
Who explains that Sans and Papyrus, quote: "just showed up one day and...asserted themselves"
Weird, right?
What's more is that, well, Papyrus is just kinda the goofy sidekick,
Sans is much more complex.
Sure, he likes fart jokes, but he's also incredibly powerful and deadly serious.
Not only is his boss battle the hardest in the game, he's one of the only characters
to have knowledge and power over space and time.
He often takes shortcuts around the world through ridiculous routes
even walking through walls.
He also acknowledges that he's only one of infinite versions of himself.
Making self-aware commentary of the various timelines that you've played through in the game.
He can even count the number of times he's killed you.
He acts like an arbiter in this world,
passing out judgement on the player's actions in the game
Even explaining the secrets of EXP and LOVE
or, Execution Points and Level of Violence, just to clarify.
In short, he just, doesn't quite fit in with the rest of the world of monsters.
But then... what, or WHO is he?
Well, the idea that he doesn't belong in Underworld seems to be correct.
The evidence seems to point to the fact that he was,
in fact, formerly a surface dweller.
In the True Pacifist ending of the game as the group looks out onto the horizon,
Papyrus asks Sans about the giant ball in the sky.
Sans says, quote: "We call that 'the sun'."
This is important because:
A: The usage of the word "we" and knowledge of the sun
shows that Sans has a kinship, or knowledge with other humans,
and B: That despite he and Papyrus both being skeletons, are supposedly brothers,
and apparently appeared in Underworld at the same time, they [voice crack] clearly
Uwah! [BEEP]
They clearly have two very different histories.
Why would Papyrus not know the name of the sun, but Sans would?
We get further clues as to Sans' origin as we hear his say multiple times that he wants to "go home", or "go back".
He says as much during his dinner date scene at the Mettaton Hotel.
He notices that the player must wanna go home and says, quote:
"I know the feeling."
He then continues:
[QUOTE ON SCREEN]
As though he ended up in Underworld by accident.
And, in the Genocide run during his boss fight, he says, quote:
"Look. I gave up trying to go back a long time ago." End quote.
And before you say he means going back to the surface world,
that's clearly not the full story.
His very next line of dialogue is: "and getting to the surface doesn't really appeal anymore, either."
Keyword here is "either".
Yes, he seems to hail from the surface and wants to go back
but based on his dialogue, he no longer considers it his home.
It's as though the surface world he once knew is gone.
As though he's from a different time.
It's pretty intriguing.
So, we're left with a being that appeared out of nowhere, presumably from the human surface,
but from a different time period. Who seemingly has the power to teleport.
That's a lot of questions and not a lot of answers.
But here's where things get really interesting...
Sans has a hidden workshop that takes a fair amount of searching to find.
You could say it takes a lot of... Determination to unlock.
Anyway, obligatory "determination" references aside...
As you start to look for this Easter egg, Sans gives you a key to his room with the words:
It's time you learned the truth.
After some searching, you find the workshop which contains items that leave even more questions.
A photo album featuring Sans and a bunch of smiling people you don't recognize,
a badge, blueprints with illegible handwriting, and a broken machine hidden behind a curtain.
In the latest update, one more detail was added.
A hand drawn picture of three smiling faces with the words " don't forget".
So, what's it all mean?
Well, a lot of Undertale theorists have been linking these details to a mysterious figure named a W.D. Gaster.
A ghostly character who never truly appears in the game.
Honestly, covering him is a theory all onto itself and probably one best saved for another day.
Even still, none of the Gaster theories I've seen have been able to explain all the details.
In particular, the photo album and the badge.
And that's what kept nagging me as I researched Undertale.
A badge? That one in particular really stuck out to me.
Why would such an oddly specific item be included in the huge Easter egg of a room?
Something that's supposedly reveals the truth about Sans.
Badges just aren't important in Undertale.
And then it hit me.
What if it wasn't from Undertale?
What if this badge was from a completely different game,
and was in fact, the most important badge in the history of gaming?
The Franklin Badge.
Now for those of you wondering what I'm talking about, the Franklin Badge is a pivotal item from the Mother series.
You know, the one with EarthBound or... maybe you don't know that one either. Uh...
You know, the one that Ness from Super Smash Brothers? Yeah well, Ness is from EarthBound
and EarthBound is the second part in this larger Mother trilogy.
Alright? Good.
Anyway, the Franklin Badge is a really important part of that series.
It gets its start in the very first game and carries through the whole trilogy.
Saving your life multiple times in the process.
It's so important, that Nintendo has made it a staple item in the Smash Brothers series.
So I asked myself, what if the badge in Sans' drawer was that exact badge?
Well first off, it would make Undertale connected to my favorite game
thereby making it even cooler!
But that's still a pretty big logical leap.
I needed more. And let me tell you, as I started looking, more and more pieces started to fit into place.
At the end of EarthBound, you're given a photo album, covering your adventures throughout the game.
To me, it's one of the best, most satisfying endings in gaming to look back on your journey in picture form.
And what does Sans happen to have in his other drawer?
A photo album filled with pictures of Sans with people you don't recognize.
Of course you don't know them. They're not characters present in Undertale.
And note the word that's used here: "People" you don't recognize. Not "Underworld monsters".
So that's two items oddly linked to the Mother series.
But then, how do the blueprints and broken machine fit in?
Well, in the final stretch of EarthBound, Ness and his three friends must travel to the past
in order to have their final battle against the evil alien Giygas.
To do that, Dr. Andonuts... Remember him by the way. He's gonna be important later.
With the help of the science geniuses, Apple Kid and Mrselect in the encoding combo "add" and add GB18030 (or GBK). Saturn,
create what's known as the "Phase Distorter".
A machine that allows people to travel through time and space.
Except... It comes with a cost.
It can't transport organic materiel. As a result, the young heroes must put their souls into robotic bodies
to use the machine and thus save the world.
I played this game back in 1997 and I'm not ashamed to admit that when I first saw this scene, I cried.
It's devastating. Dr. Andonuts says goodbye to his son, these characters that you've grown to love
and care about are suddenly promising to sacrifice their lives. For all they know, there's no possibility
of them being able to come back home.
It's this incredibly dark departure in the final moments of what was otherwise a fun, quirky, and colorful RPG.
So what's this have to do with Undertale? A lot, actually.
But the first thing you need to know is that Mr. Saturns are known for their... let's say, unique linguistic style.
That would explain the illegible handwriting on the blueprints.
And the machine? I think a broken Phase Distorter is behind that curtain.
Now that may seem like a stretch, but it actually explains a lot.
If Sans wound up in Underworld, via a Phase Distorter, it could provide a reason for why he's a skeleton.
He used the machine as organic matter and suffered the concequences.
Not killing him, but turning at least a part of him into a pile of bones.
It would also explain why Sans has given up hope for going home.
Remember, the distorter is a time machine. Being in Underworld, he's not only in a different place,
but based on how he talks, he's also in a different time.
With no hope of travelling back to the time he came from.
But the crossovers between EarthBound and Undertale continue.
When you speak to the Apple Kid at the end of EarthBound, he's blown away by the astronomical odds
of Ness overcoming Giygas. Saying he's going to continue studying the trait called "courage" in order to harness its power.
Seems awfully similar to the same experiments happening in Undertale around the trait of "determination", no?
Especially since so much speculation has circulated that Sans is a key player in those experiments.
But I'm sure you also want physical evidence, right?
Well don't worry, because I have plenty.
During one of the endings of Undertale, we see Undyne and Alphys
hanging out on the beach on the surface world. A beach that shares a lot of similarities
to the tropical resort location named "Summers" that you play through in EarthBound.
In fact, the geographic layout of the surface bears some striking similarities to the world of Mother.
When Undertale's crew of monsters are finally able to reach the surface and look out over the earth,
they're met with a beautiful sunset falling across a landscape of a tall mountain, a large city, and a sandy area adjacent to water.
Notice the sun's reflection to indicate water, and a lack of trees in this middle section here, hence the sand.
Well, in EarthBound, you have the big city of Fourside, complete with skyscrapers,
which you reach via a desert that just so happens to be adjacent to some water,
And to the east,
the mountain in Onett [pronounced "oh net"] where a meteorite lands on Earth.
I always called it Onett [pronounced "on it"]
But if that's not clear enough for you, Mother One, "EarthBound Zero", "EarthBound Beginnings"
Whatever you want to call it, its had a lot of names.
Had a map laying out the same geographic landscape:
a tall mountain to the eastof a large city, separated by a desert with all of it up against a cost.
I don't know about you, but to me it seems like there's a definite connection between the world of Eagleland [pronounced "Eagle lind]
Eagleland? [pronounced "Eagle land"] Again, unclear how it's pronounced.
Between the world of Eagleland, and the surface world of Undertale.
But the strongest physical connection, the one that definitely unites these two franchises,
comes from none other than Papyrus himself.
He wears a custom-made costume known as his "battle body".
But if you look really closely at the design of the armor, you'll notice some markings on the chest.
Is it just a throwaway detail?
Ho-hoh no. That right there is an exact match to the ones that appear on the chests of Starmen
The most iconic enemy of EarthBound. And look at the way he stands!
I always thought it was awkward until I looked at the two characters side by side.
Papyrus' curved arm and hand is a direct match to the curved arms of the Starmen in the Mother series!
In short, we have some incredibly strong proof that the EarthBound universe is somehow connected to the Undertale world.
Which brings us back to our initial question... Who is Sans?
Well what if we took it one final step and said that Sans happened to be Ness from EarthBound.
Sent through the Phase Distorter during a test of courage, carrying the Franklin Badge
and his photo album in his trusty backpack.
Not only do all the items in the workshop suddenly fit, bus so does Sans' behavior.
Remember, Sans can seemingly teleport, and Ness just so happens to have the PSI ability to teleport.
Now look at the way Sans always stands. Hands in his pockets, directly facing the camera,
It's a very similar stance to how Ness is depicted standing in most marketing for the game.
It even explains why Sans bleeds when you finally hit him. He is, or at least was, a human.
Oh, and finally, Sans is only one letter removed from being an anagram for Ness.
That's just a fun one. I thought it was worth mentioning.
But if there was any doubt, we have to look no further than the creator's previous work.
Toby Fox, the man behind Undertale, had previously worked on a Halloween hack for EarthBound.
But this just wasn't a simple reskin, the Halloween hack tells the tale of Dr. Andonuts after the events of EarthBound.
Remember I pointed him out? He's the one who made the Phase Distorter.
In Toby Fox's version of the story, we see that Giygas defeat, the souls of the kids never return home.
Instead, by going to the past to defeat Giygas, they create a new timeline that they're stuck in.
As a result, Jeff never reunites with his father, Dr. Andonuts.
And Dr. Andonuts goes crazy with guilt. Because he's the one responsible for creating the time machine,
and extracting the souls of his son and his son's friends to send them back to what he assumes was their death.
In his mind, he killed four kids. And in Toby Fox's game, he's lost his mind trying to deal with that guilt.
I'm telling you, this hack is dark.
But that said, you see a lot of Undertale in this game. The appearance of amalgamates, the first use of the awesome song, Megalovania,
The prototypes for Flowey, and the theme of having the choice to be non-violent in an RPG, sparing your enemies.
But then, why's this all matter to the theory?
Well remember, in Toby Fox's version of the story, the kids don't come back. They're stuck
in the past with no hopes of getting home. Just like Sans.
And in the hack, one character is oddly missing with no explanation as to why.
Ness. Presumably in this timeline, his soul is in a different place than his three friends.
Which brings us back to Undertale. Three faces with "don't forget" written on it?
It's Ness trying to remember his three friends.
In short, Undertale is a continuation of Toby's version of EarthBound, with Ness never being able to get home,
adopting the name Sans, and accompanied by Papyrus;
a former Starman, an alien force able to speak English and still equipped with his armor and signature posture,
but without any knowledge of earthly things, like the sun.
The pieces all just seem to fit. Now all we need is an appearance from Pokey/Porky
and we've got ourselves a true sequel!
But hey, that's just a theory...
A Game Theory!
Thanks for watching!
Now go forth with that knowledge and try to tell me who Gaster is.
Don't worry. I'll be looking too.
I've a few more Undertale theories in the works as well as a Deadlock, and then there's Goomba with another Culture Shock on the game.
So if you're into the franchise, make sure you subscribe to get notified of those videos as they come out over the next few weeks.
And hey! If you're interested in learning more about the EarthBound Halloween hack
and it's role as a precursor to Undertale, we're currently playing through it live! Our next session is
Wednesday 4pm Pacific Time right here on this channel. So check it out. It's super creepy but also super fascinating to see the inner workings of Toby Fox's mind.
And if you wanna catch up with what you've missed, BOOM! Here's a link.
I think that this clip really sums it up best:
[MatPat]: HELL YES MEXICANS!
[Claps]
Or if you want to learn more about my favorite game, EarthBound, click right here.
It's an old theory about the true meaning of the game. With an emphasis on OLD.
So go back and laugh at how bad my editing and voice-over was. It's, uh, pretty funny to look back.
But honestly, the message about the beauty of EarthBound is just as relevant as ever.
Hopefully by you guys watching this episode, and maybe clicking over to watch that episode,
I can share with you my all-time favorite game, and quite honestly, one of the best games ever created.
But now if you'll excuse me, I've gotta go track some human migratory patterns across Southeastern Asia.
So I'll see you guys next week. 

 *phone rings*
*picks up*
MatPat as Phone Guy: Uh.. Hello? Hello hello? Oh, hello,
and welcome to the new and improved Five Nights at Freddy's new video!
Umm...
I'm here to answer any questions the game may of left
'Unanswered.'
The game's developer,
He's uhh
He's a pretty tricky guy.
ahem
Don't worry though,
I'll get everything cleared up.
Oh, and uh watch out for the puppet.
*static*
*Intro. Song: SpellingPhailer - Science Blaster*
Hello, internet.
Welcome to Game Theory!
The show that promises not to include anymore
gratuitous jump scares.
Unless that's just what I want you to think.
So I can lull you into a false sense of security
and scare you again!
But...I wouldn't do that!
I'll just let the uncertainty of whether a jumpscare is going to happen
or not drive you insane for the rest of this episode.
Ha-ha! Man, I love reverse psychology!
You know what else I love?
These games!
Not because I'm freaked out by the rosy cheeked, Tingle-looking, emotionally dead animatronics.
Okay, well Balloon Kid is pretty messed up, but whatever.
No, what I appreciate about these games
is the level of thought that went into every element of the story.
When you create a game that has people rage-debating about whether it's a sequel or a prequel,
you've definitely done something right.
Unless that was never your intent, in which case you've done something
HORRIBLY HORRIBLY WRONG.
Anyway, the point is, Five Nights at Freddy's 2 looks to be everything you'd want in a sequel:
More cameras, more danger, and more FAN.
Ughh, the fan!
But that also comes with more questions: questions about the game's lore.
And while others will provide you with the jump-scares,
I provide you with what everyone really wants:
ANSWERS.
Well, maybe not everyone.
What an elite, educated subset of you REALLY want:
ANSWERS.
So grab yourselves a slice of Freddy Fazbear's signature pizza, 'cause we're about to dig in.
Lugh!
Tastes like...
Cardboard.
Let's get the big one out of the way first;
And what I mean by that is, contrary to popular belief,
just because it has a big '2' slapped next to the name
doesn't automatically mean the game comes after the first one in a timeline sense.
It's a sequel, yes, but it tells a prequel story.
Take, for instance, these all-time classics:
Psycho IV: The Beginning,
Lion King 1\BD,
and the actual all-time classic, Godfather: Part II.
All of them sequels, that just so happen to also be prequels.
It's not mutually exclusive.
So, where's Five Nights at Freddy's 2 fit in?
Knowing it's place in the timeline is crucial for understanding it's story.
Well, to figure that out, let's focus on the paycheck you receive at the end of your fifth night.
The date places the events of the game in 1987,
a whole six years ahead of when we determined the first game took place in our first video.
Sounds like a prequel, but we found that date in the first game
by calculating Mike Schmidt's hourly pay
and comparing that to the minimum wage of the '90's.
If Scott Cawthon, the game's developer, is just picking random numbers for the payments,
this bit of evidence would be meaningless.
Except that he's not.
At the end of Five Night's 2, you get paid $100.50.
Divide that by the 30 hours worked, and you get $3.35 an hour,
the EXACT minimum wage for 1987.
Which means that us using minimum wage calculations to identify the year of Five Nights 1
IS a perfectly valid way to prove it,
and shows that it takes place AFTER the events of Five Nights 2.
Still don't believe me?
Players brave enough to survive the extra night six
are rewarded with a bonus check and a newspaper clipping that says the toy robots are getting scrapped,
and that the old ones are going into storage for a new, smaller scale version of the restaurant.
That would explain why the old models reappear in Five Nights 1,
and the toy models don't.
And notice how it mentions a SMALLER version of the restaurant.
The building in Five Nights 1 is SIGNIFICANTLY smaller than the setting of Five Nights 2.
Need more evidence?
What about the fact that on the first night in the office,
the phone guy explains that the robots used to walk around during the day,
just like they do in Five Nights 2, but not anymore.
Or the fact that Phone Guy DIES in the first game,
making it hard for him to also be the phone guy in Five Nights at Freddy's 2 if it takes place after.
Call me the Phantom Menace, 'cause every way to Sunday, this game is a prequel.
So with that revelation out of the way,
we're able to peace together the rest of the timeline and dig a little bit deeper.
Posters everywhere in Five Nights 2 welcome you to this new location,
Implying that there was another Freddy Fazbear's pizza somewhere before this one.
Additionally, the phone guy makes reference to it on night one,
mentioning the old location and how it was left to rot.
So, we know that there was one Freddy Fazbear's Pizza for the first game,
one for the second game,
and one that came before both of them that we've never seen.
But even before THAT,
the phone guy ALSO mentions an even older restaurant called 'Fredbear's Family Diner,'
which, aside from its confusingly different name, also had different owners.
So, let me recap;
There's the restaurant from the first game, which is the last in the timeline,
the one that you're currently working at in 1987 in Five Nights 2,
an older location of Freddy Fazbear's Pizzeria left to rot,
and the original Fredbear's Diner.
Jeez, I hope you're still with me because this is more complicated than the Zelda Timeline!
Anyway, it's at this first location, the diner, where the whole story begins.
Submitted for the approval of The Game Theorists' Society,
THIS is the true tale of Five Nights at Freddy's.
When you die in Five Night's at Freddy's 2,
before you've even gotten over the jump-scare, you sometimes get a screen like this.
Oh, turn it off! Turn it off, it's too horrifying!
That, youngsters, was ET for the Atari,
a console that came out BEFORE the NES.
Yes, around the same time as the dinosaurs.
It's widely considered to be the worst game of all time,
hence me reacting in a horrified manner.
See? Humor, folks!
But seriously, you get these disturbing death mini-games
which, true to the 1987 setting, use Atari-esque graphics to depict various horrific events.
All the while, a creepy robotic voice spells out letter by letter, thing like:
These death mini-games are THE MOST IMPORTANT piece in figuring out the true story behind these games.
Let's start with this one:
This death mini-game has you playing as Freddy, taking cake to screaming children at a birthday party.
As Freddy rushes around trying to keep the whole party happy,
a single sad child looks on from outside,
and suddenly, you're powerless to do anything but look on in abject horror
as a purple man pulls up in a car, murders the child, and drives off.
It's my belief, loyal theorists, that this game takes place at Fredbear's Diner.
And is chronologically the first event that we see in this timeline.
How do I know?
Well, it's a small establishment, and there's only one animatronic: Freddy,
as opposed to all the other games which show other robots.
But more importantly, this murdered child is the one that sets EVERYTHING into motion.
One of the new tasks added to Five Night's at Freddy's 2 is winding a mysterious music box,
that we're told placates one of the animatronics.
If you fail to wind the music box, what you're introduced to is THIS terrifying thing:
THE PUPPET. Looks like No Face from Spirited Away.
You know what else he looks like?
Take a look at that murdered child again.
See how his tear tracks remain visible on his face,
even after he's dead?
If we assume that they'll continue to stay with him into the afterlife,
we can make a pretty good case that this kid's murdered spirit
eventually found its way into the puppet animatronic.
But that's not all.
What jump-scare happens after this 'Save Him' mini-game?
After seeing this tear-stained child's murder reenacted in 8-bit, the puppet.
The puppet jumps out of the screen, and attacks you.
Coincidence? I don't think so.
That incident marks the first time the chain is ever associated with a violent act carried out against a child,
and we can infer that it was this incident that caused the original owners of Fredbear's Diner
to sell off to the company now known as Fazbear Entertainment.
Now, I don't know about you, but if I was senselessly murdered and left to haunt a crappy pizza place
for the rest of my life in the body of an awful looking clown doll,
I'd want to get my revenge as soon as possible.
Unfortunately for our vengeful puppet, though,
it doesn't quite turn out that way.
Fast forward a few years to Freddy Fazbear's Pizza.
The first location.
The one that has yet to appear in a game.
This new restaurant is the one we learned about in my earlier episode,
and throughout the first game,
where our pal, the murderer, uses a Golden Freddy suit to lure away and kill five children in the backroom.
As we read through the various articles on the wall,
he gets caught the next day, but the bodies are never found.
Presumably because they've been stuffed into the animatronic suits.
The restaurant stays open for a few months, until the dead body stink starts to waft off the robots,
and causes the place to get shut down for health reasons.
But how do we KNOW this happened in the first pizzeria's location?
Again, we turn to what the phone guy says.
On night two of Five Night's 2,
he mentions the smell coming from the old animatronics;
the smell that got the original restaurant shut down.
We also know that after the Golden Freddy incident,
it took multiple months for the restaurant to get shut down.
That couldn't have happened in the restaurant of Five Nights at Freddy's 2,
which is shut down on night six,
and into the foreseeable future.
But outside of these lore clues, it also makes logical sense.
Before the Golden Freddy murders,
there was one dead child whose tear-stained soul existed in the form of the puppet.
But now, there are five more dead children,
and thanks to another of the death mini-games, we find out exactly what happened to them.
In the 'Help Them' mini-game, the puppet stuffs the dead children into the robotic suits,
giving their souls new life,
and preps them for their eternal mission of vengeance.
"But, but MatPat!" you say through your chattering teeth.
"There are only FOUR dead children in that game!"
to which I tell you, look closer, if you dare,
for the frame RIGHT before Golden Freddy's head jumps out and attacks
features the lost fifth dead child,
and what started as a haunted puppet
has suddenly become an army of possessed animatronics out for revenge.
But wait! That's not all we know.
We also know the murder was committed by the same guy who killed the first child.
How?
Look at the Foxy death mini-game.
Twice, Foxy runs out to meet the kids,
but the third time, we see the tall purple man again, smiling.
Foxy goes into the other room to find five dead children.
The man in purple strikes again.
Skip ahead to 1987,
FINALLY bringing us to the events of Five Nights at Freddy's 2.
The old animatronics have been retired.
The cute new versions of all our favorite friends
come equipped with facial recognition software
that just so happens to be connected to a
sex offender database.
Seems like an oddly specific detail right?
until you consider that the
last resturant was closed for
having children get kidnapped and
killed by an employee.
It's a safety measure , you see how it all ties
together? So you have some animatronics
possessed by vengeful spirits
and another batch on the prowl
for predators but that doesn't stop our
the purple man from continuing
his life's work of murdering children
at Freddy Fazbear's Pizza.
As we learn from phone guy on nights 4-6
the new restaurant is, once again,
under investigation as, well...
I'll let him explain.
*Phone Guy speaking*
MatPat: The Golden Freddy killer struck again.
The final death mini-game also supports this.
You, as Freddy,
must walk through an exact replica of the building.
Animatronics all in their proper places.
Seeing the five dead children
spread out through the various rooms.
And based on what phone guy says
it seems like the guilty party was the former night guard.
The one who moved to day shift
and the one your character replaced.
I mean phone guy makes plenty of uncomfortable references
to suddenly having an available
position during the day.
*Phone Guy speaking*
MatPat: But is the purple man Really someone
we've never met? And who's only worked there a week?
Or is it some one we trust,
someone with a long history with these characters,
someone no one would suspect?
The head guard, the one forced to fill
empty positions and teach new recruits
by leaving them instructions over the phone.
Is the purple man the phone guy?
Ask yourself this:
Let's look at what he says,
first, he always speaks like an outsider looking in.
He refers to the management of the company as "they."
So, he's not a higher up like the CEO or even a manager.
But he is also not a typical day worker as he says things like:
"The employees" and "the staff"
So, he works there, but isn't generally considered a regular member of the company.
We also know that he is qualified to take the role of a night guard,
as we learn he is plans to take over the position sometime after night six
and is on his way out of the position by the time the first game starts.
*Phone Guy speaking*
*Phone Guy speaking*
MatPat: What else do we know? Well, we know that phone guys has a long history with the company,
being with it at least since the first pizzeria that we haven't played in.
He also openly admits that Foxy the pirate was always his favorite,
and that he has never liked the puppet because, as he says, it was always thinking.
*Phone Guy speaking*
MatPat: Ok, but what do we know about the purple guy?
The golden Freddy killer...
Well, let's look at the mini-games again
He has a long history with the franchise, killing since it was Fredbear Diner
We see him smiling as he watches Foxy perform
phone guy's favorite right before Foxy sees the room of dead children.
We KNOW that the puppet and the killer wouldn't get along,
which would explain Phone Guy's discomfort around a creature that he describes as 'always thinking.'
And here's the bombshell:
We know the killer is a security guard.
How? On very rare occasions during the SAVE THEM mini-game,
while Freddy chases the puppet, the purple man appears and chases you.
Look on his chest, it's an orange badge,
the kind of would be given to a security guard.
Now look at his eyes, notice the white spots?
An odd seemingly innocuous detail;
but now, look at Golden Freddy,
look deep into his dead vacant eyes.
What do you see? Two white spots, pinpricks really, barely visible
but they're there.
And now finally, what do we see in purple guy's hand?
While the Atari graphics make it tough to discern,
it's not like any gun or knife I've seen.
No, that to me is very clearly
a phone.
The robotic voice is spelling out for you "Save them, SAVE THEM!"
But when purple guy, Phone Guy, catches you..
the screen crashes and all you're left with is
"you can't"
But that's not where it ends, internet.
As you and I both know, there's still Five Nights at Freddy's 1.
If this game is last in line and the puppet is truly pulling the strings
behind all of this, you might be asking yourself
where he is in Five Nights 1.
We know the other animatronics got scrapped,
but this ghostly guy should still be around if this timeline I propose is correct.
Get this, the puppet IS in the first game.
Take a look at the East hallway, seems pretty normal, right?
But every so often the posters on the walls change to this
a crying child with two streaming lines down his face.
Look familiar? It should.
The Five Nights at Freddy's series is about vengeance.
One child, six children, more...
Looking for revenge against a sick child killer.
The purple guy, the guy who just so happens to be the first voice you hear
in turning on these games.
Save them
SAVE THEM...
You can't...
But hey, that's just a theory... a Game Theory.
Thanks for watching.
Make sure you wind that music-box by clicking the subscribe button,
otherwise the puppet might get ya...
click it...
CLICK IT...
*Mouse Click*
Oh, I guess you were safe after all.
It's almost the holiday break, you know what I like to do during this time of love and gladness?
Catch up on my favorite TV shows.
But at this point, I don't have cable and should probably avoid pirating things.
Which is why I subscribed to HuluPLUS.
and by clicking the link in the description or typing in huluplus.com/matpat
You can get a free two-week trial of non-stop binge watch for all your favorite shows.
Like Bleach, One Piece, Family Guy, Sword Art Online II.
Or if you're like me, you'll probably relive the glory days of the 90's
by marathoning Sabrina the Teenage Witch for days on end.
Uh... get together with Harvey already!
While everyone else is fighting hoards at the mall;
you, the smart one, will have done your online shopping
and be lounging around working your way through season one of Drunk History.
So get your two-week free trial by clicking on huluplus.com/matpat
The weather outside may be frightful but the HuluPLUS is so delightful.
That was admittedly very cheesy. 
